README.md, before:

# SEPP-prototype
Beginning of Project
---------------------------------------
Idea: OTP generation & validation<br>
Language: Python<br>
---------------------------------------
Work unit distribution:
* We are modifying the prototype into a more consice idea where we just focus on the core concept which is OTP geenration and validation while we used "Smart door unlocking" as our test environment but it will be carried out in terms of CLI instead of GUI.

Before creating main structure, we are creating a <strong>MAKEFILE<strong> first for automating tasks.

<strong>Backend Development:</strong><br>
Part 1: Implement OTP Generation<br>
Responsibilities:<br>
OTP Generation: Create a secure function to generate a 6-digit OTP.<br>
Randomization: Utilize HOTP (HMAC-based One-Time Password) for generating unpredictable OTPs.(Phase 1)<br>
Time-based OTP (Optional for Phase 2):If you have time, implement an expiry mechanism for the OTP (e.g., it expires after 5 minutes). This is a common feature in secure OTP systems.<br>(Explore converting HOTP to TOTP with a time-based expiry mechanism if feasible.)<br>
Deliverables:<br>
A function that securely generates a random 6-digit OTP using HOTP.<br>
Unit tests for OTP generation to ensure randomness and security.<br>
PIC: Colin <br>

Part 2: Implement OTP Validation<br>
Responsibilities:<br>
OTP Validation: Implement the function that takes an OTP input from the user and validates it against the generated OTP.<br>
Match Check: Compare the user input with the stored/generated OTP.<br>
(i) checking the OTP is only digit
Expiry Validation (Optional): If you implemented expiry in OTP generation, Member 2 would also handle expiry validation (checking if the OTP has expired).(If implemented in Phase 2, handle OTP expiry)<br>
Error Handling: Handle incorrect or expired OTP scenarios. Provide feedback to the user when the OTP is invalid or expired(phase2).<br>
Deliverables:<br>
A function to validate OTPs with proper error handling.<br>
Unit tests for OTP validation, including edge cases like incorrect input or expired OTPs (if implemented).<br>
PIC: Keng <br>

<strong>CLI Interface:</strong><br>
Responsibilities:<br>
CLI Interface: Build a simple command-line interface that serves as user interface for interacting with the system that can accomdoate multiple users to manage OTP generation and validation. OTP generation and validation logic will be linked to respective class and not under the CLI class. Door unlocking simulation will be used as a response for successful OTP validation. Also due to multiple user, we will be testing whether all the generated OTPs will be successfully validated instead of each OTP may only be validated by an individual user that generated it.

PIC: Max <br>

<strong>Testing and documentation:</strong><br>
Unit Testing<br>
* Each person in charge will need to test if each part of their code is running.(Individually testing)<br>
End-to-End Testing<br>
* Ensure all the codes are compile and working.(As a team testing)<br>
Documentation<br>
* updates on the work units, including any changes in approach, results of evaluations, etc. as appropriate.(Done individually)<br>

---------------------------------------
Work Updates:<br>
Make File has been created but some features are not working so it requires fixing.<br>

Back end Development:<br>
Part 1:<br>
Complete OTPgeneration (Phase 1). Ensure necesssary functions are working.<br>
Working on Test Cases.<br>


Part 2:<br>



CLI Interface & User Flow:

Commit message:

Patch 18 (#30)
* Modify OTPgeneration with include of store sata in
to Json file as log

* try fetching file location

* create testfile for OTPgeneration

* update test file

* update typo in testfile for Test_OTPgeneration

* edit Makefile

* Merge branch 'main' of https://github.com/ColinZhe-1213/SEPP-prototype into Patch-6

* update Test_OTPgeneration

* delete cache file

* obtain previous code file

* FIX OTPgeneration

* Remove JSON temporary for testing

* Merge branch 'main' of https://github.com/ColinZhe-1213/SEPP-prototype into Patch11

* Fix OTPgeneration: Now all fucntions can be used

* Merge branch 'main' of https://github.com/ColinZhe-1213/SEPP-prototype into Patch-12

* Fix merge issue

* remove duplciates

* Merge branch 'main' of https://github.com/ColinZhe-1213/SEPP-prototype into Patch-13

* Update work status

* patch 18

* update class

---------

Co-authored-by: ColinZhe-1213 <cckz@hotmail.my>

README.md, after:

# SEPP-prototype
Beginning of Project
---------------------------------------
Idea: OTP generation & validation<br>
Language: Python<br>
---------------------------------------
Work unit distribution:
* We are modifying the prototype into a more consice idea where we just focus on the core concept which is OTP geenration and validation while we used "Smart door unlocking" as our test environment but it will be carried out in terms of CLI instead of GUI.

Before creating main structure, we are creating a <strong>MAKEFILE<strong> first for automating tasks.

<strong>Backend Development:</strong><br>
Part 1: Implement OTP Generation<br>
Responsibilities:<br>
OTP Generation: Create a secure function to generate a 6-digit OTP.<br>
Randomization: Utilize HOTP (HMAC-based One-Time Password) for generating unpredictable OTPs.(Phase 1)<br>
Time-based OTP (Optional for Phase 2):If you have time, implement an expiry mechanism for the OTP (e.g., it expires after 5 minutes). This is a common feature in secure OTP systems.<br>(Explore converting HOTP to TOTP with a time-based expiry mechanism if feasible.)<br>
Deliverables:<br>
A function that securely generates a random 6-digit OTP using HOTP.<br>
Unit tests for OTP generation to ensure randomness and security.<br>
PIC: Colin <br>

Part 2: Implement OTP Validation<br>
Responsibilities:<br>
OTP Validation: Implement the function that takes an OTP input from the user and validates it against the generated OTP.<br>
Match Check: Compare the user input with the stored/generated OTP.<br>
(i) checking the OTP is only digit
Expiry Validation (Optional): If you implemented expiry in OTP generation, Member 2 would also handle expiry validation (checking if the OTP has expired).(If implemented in Phase 2, handle OTP expiry)<br>
Error Handling: Handle incorrect or expired OTP scenarios. Provide feedback to the user when the OTP is invalid or expired(phase2).<br>
Deliverables:<br>
A function to validate OTPs with proper error handling.<br>
Unit tests for OTP validation, including edge cases like incorrect input or expired OTPs (if implemented).<br>
PIC: Keng <br>

<strong>CLI Interface:</strong><br>
Responsibilities:<br>
CLI Interface: Build a simple command-line interface that serves as user interface for interacting with the system that can accomdoate multiple users to manage OTP generation and validation. OTP generation and validation logic will be linked to respective class and not under the CLI class. Door unlocking simulation will be used as a response for successful OTP validation. Also due to multiple user, we will be testing whether all the generated OTPs will be successfully validated instead of each OTP may only be validated by an individual user that generated it.

PIC: Max <br>

<strong>Testing and documentation:</strong><br>
Unit Testing<br>
* Each person in charge will need to test if each part of their code is running.(Individually testing)<br>
End-to-End Testing<br>
* Ensure all the codes are compile and working.(As a team testing)<br>
Documentation<br>
* updates on the work units, including any changes in approach, results of evaluations, etc. as appropriate.(Done individually)<br>

---------------------------------------
Work Updates:<br>
Make File has been created but some features are not working so it requires fixing.<br>

Back end Development:<br>
Part 1:<br>
Complete OTPgeneration (Phase 1). Ensure necesssary functions are working.<br>
Working on Test Cases.<br>


Part 2:<br>
complete the code of OTP validation(pharse 1) and the part of testfile


CLI Interface & User Flow:
